Hi. I'm here today with Jarrod Dicker from Po.et.
Share with us a little bit about your role at Po.et.
Sure. I'm the CEO at Po.et.
I joined in the end of February,
early March this year.
It feels like I've been here for years,
but it's actually only been about seven months.
Prior, I ran innovation at the Washington Post.
My background's in media, Washington Post,
I was at the Huffington Post, I was at Time Inc.
So I always held roles where there was
a ton of focus and energy towards how we build a better model as it pertains to media,
how we could create the road that we want to drive on that's relevant to our business.
I don't know how many people who watch this understand the media business,
but it's constantly driving uphill when it comes to advertising dollars,
subscription dollars, getting user attention,
the relationship with the platform.
So there's a huge opportunity when it comes to
investment in innovating and thinking differently about those models.
So that clearly drew me to Po.et,
which was this idea of what if these things become decentralized.
What if we really start to open up the definitions of what it means to be a creator,
and what it means to be distributed on platforms,
and how people get paid,
and how reputation gets built.
That is something that when you boil it down,
it really needs something that is decentralized.
That's not necessarily being managed or walled garden within a certain platform,
but really allows people to be interoperable.
So I'm now here,
I'm the CEO of this company.
What we're really looking to build is what
the future media economy looks like for everyone.
Share with us a value proposition of Po.et's services
like what's it doing on the decentralized world,
what's it doing now that's valuable to folks.
Po.et is extremely focused on what its reputation look like on the web,
which frankly, I don't believe exists at this point.
There are ways to discover information,
and that's broken down on social platforms,
and through certain search engines like Google,
where you could search for information based on
relevance or based on the time it was created.
But you don't necessarily know that the information that you're getting is
authored by the person you think it is or has this information been fact-checked,
who's paying for this information,
and there's just a list beyond list of opportunities to be able to
gain more information or so the ingredients behind which you are about to consume.
Po.et is looking to play that role at a protocol level.
What are the tools that we could build that enable anyone
to be able to own their IP, have their information,
whether that's art or music,
or journalism or photography to be able to have that
immutable and own the ledger via Po.et.
Then paired with that by being able to leverage token economics.
Po.et in itself has a token, POE,
how could we then incentivize people to build reputation on top of that.
What are the incentive models,
both intrinsic and extrinsic,
that can be done to find out who is the author of something.
When was something created?
Do people have the rights to be able to license this information?
Is it fair to say that it's content notarized?
Yeah. There's a few angles for it.
Copyright and notary is definitely one.
I think provenance and being able to see
the source of information and how it traveled to where it is currently being consumed.
So that could be on a contractual level,
like was this thing signed by this person,
and how do we have proof of that existence?
That could be, I'm watching a video and how do I
know that this video of Donald Trump speaking is
actually Donald Trump speaking and not a deep fake that is
created from another country rather via propaganda?
These are more and more issues that are coming up.
I think that your assumption of it being
tied to notary or people say it tied to attribution
is very real and a serious case of how Po.et is being used and distributed.
But I think it also opens up an entirely new slew of things that it could be
used if it is important to find ownership, attribution, and discovery.
What does that mean for the modern web era?
I think it's a value proposition that's important
because more and more assets are getting into the digital ledger,
and they're containing a storage of value in one way or another.
Content is also another way to look at value.
Content is valuable.
You mentioned ranking.
Share with us a little bit more about what you're doing for ranking.
We're looking to expose this information.
I think when you look at curation in the modern day sense,
like the role of an algorithm like Facebook or Google,
or a media company like The Washington Post or BuzzFeed,
you rely on them for curation.
Whether that is manual curation,
like an editor has done for the past 100 years in a newspaper or
that's curation based on certain information like personalized curation,
what your news feed delivers you and what Google delivers to you.
What I think we're looking to do is the next level of this,
which is what do rankings and curation look like when it's on a more personal level?
We don't necessarily want to say this is right and this is wrong,
or these are the best, or this is the worst,
or this is black and this white,
because I think that's why we're constantly continuing to go in separate directions.
Again, not to get political, but as a country we are.
But also in terms of the information you trust,
and what you read, and who you listen to.
Our ways of combating that is curating even further so that people that didn't
trust this in the first place aren't now going to
trust it because you say it's the best or you say,
"Oh no, but we are doing this properly."
There needs to be some outside or third-party verifier
that is able to give that information.
That changes the way that my view of the world is to
your view of the world and the information that we choose to consume is consumable.
I think that we change the world for the better,
and rankings and information for the better by
addressing the gray area at large and not saying,
this doesn't fit but this does fit.
But here's all of the world's information,
and here are the exposure or signals of that information,
and then you can so choose like you would smoking cigarettes,
or drinking alcohol, or eating fast food.
If you still want to go for it, go for it.
We're not here to tell you not to, but hopefully,
we can help inform people that are looking
for something deeper or want to better understand
what information they are about to bring in and retain in order to do so.
What we start to do with this breakdown of the middle is basically saying,
here is all of this information for you to make the decisions on your own,
knowing that you will want to consume what you consume,
how do you take that outside of these platforms?
That's a huge theme that I've been obsessing over lately, which is interoperability.
We're so locked in to centralized platforms.
Like everything I do on Facebook is limited to Facebook,
granted some bleeds over to Instagram because they're owned by the same company.
But then I go to Google and I have to do everything over.
If I have my own blog, I have to do everything over.
All of these different platforms, they're not interoperable.
So me as a creator, writer,
or any IP that I'm doing,
I basically need to replicate across all these platforms.
Well, with these new systems that are non reliant on some central authority,
can I just had this more interoperability approach where I could choose to use Instagram,
I could choose to use Facebook,
I could choose to use any video player I want or any image gallery I want.
But basically, my reputation is what carries everywhere and it's
not necessarily reliant on the platform itself.
The people that I've been talking to had been
grasping it more and more and seeing it more and more as,
wow, we as individuals are bringing value,
yet that value is non-transferable,
but I myself am the one that's bringing value to these platforms,
so how come I'm not reaping the rewards of bringing value to these platforms?
I think that that has everything to do with the fact that
there's incentives of centralized systems to keep
those systems intact and not
necessarily give too much away or bleed over into competing systems.
A lot of people challenge what I talk about when it comes to,
because when I talk about with building reputation and building information on the web,
you can look back at what SEO did for links and what social did
for creators in the first level and now what these centralization is doing here.
People often say, well,
it sounds like you're blowing everything up,
but then you're going to come back to this point that we've been at before.
I think that's a real concern.
I don't necessarily know if the word is concerned,
but I think even when you look at Bitcoin and blockchain
and how the currency and financial elements are coming about,
we may end up in something similar but a little better.
I think that makes all the efforts worth it.
We've learned and know full well now that we
can't just rebuild within the structures that currently exists.
Because we keep trying to do that and it works,
and it looks pretty for a few years,
and then the paint peels and you still see the broken foundations that it was built on.
What this movement has really
allowed is people like me and others to really go out there and say,
we have to tear it all down and we have to rebuild it.
Even if some components of the house are similar,
we're going to learn from our past of how
things were built and try to build it in a more feasible open way.
There's a very realistic scenario where that happens again,
where we're talking about decentralized computing and decentralized applications,
and then we'd find that even though things are somewhat better,
we're going back to centralized approach.
We at Po.et are working really hard enough to do that, and it's tough.
It's tough because there are companies out there like media companies,
or technology companies, or brands that are willing to work with us directly today.
They don't necessarily want us to shed our morals or our notion of decentralization,
but there are certain things that they needed.
These can be things like private storage that they need done in
order to be working together that are
counter intuitive to why we're doing this in the first place.
But I think that it's important and you raised a good point
where we should be extremely honest with where we are,
and we should really identify the value points
of what blockchain could be and how we get there.
I think what attracts me to blockchain is that it's a very human dependent technology,
that it really requires the contributions of many and
a lot of different thinkers and
different way of doing things in order for it to be successful.
So it can't just necessarily sit dormant.
It can't be centralized.
It needs to be influenced by a lot of
outside components in order for it
to go to where it needs to be and be as successful as it can.
Excellent. Thank you so much for spending time with us today.
Thank you.
It was enjoyable.
I really appreciate it.
Very brilliant. I love the vision of Po.et.
Fantastic.
Thank you.